Scenario: Nighttime Void
Hundreds of years ago, the Night Blade was divided into two groups: The Reformists, and Moderates, with Linne and her brother Kuon on the side of the Moderates with Kuon as their leader. A great battle broke out between the two sides, resulting in many lives lost. A surviving village elder decided to split the knowledge of EXS into the bodies of Kuon and Linne. From this, Linne's soul was cursed to become a parasite that, upon the death of her current body, would take over the body and soul of another currently living person, causing her soul to persist eternally. Kuon, burdened by his own curse, left and decided to leave his close ally Waldstein to follow and care for Linne. The two siblings went separate paths, and since then, Linne has been searching for a way to finally put an end to her curse of reincarnation.

Scenario: Chained Soul
Ten years prior to arriving in Kanzakai once more, Linne encountered a young Seth in her previous body. She told him about the story of the Princess of the Night Blade while concealing her true identity under the name Chitose. After the young Seth expressed a desire to take on the Princess' burden, Linne told him to mature and train before he can take on this role. A bit later, she was called over by Waldstein and parted ways with Seth, who later realized her true identity.

Scenario: Power Beat
In her present day body, Linne and Waldstein arrive just outside Kanzakai after hearing of the amount of new In-Births sprouting in the city that used to be the land of the Night Blade centuries ago. They reminisce on their past in the Night Blade, and how society has drastically changed since their age. The two express some concern over entering the city, knowing that it is populated with Night Blade members who believe the two betrayed the clan. They continue to discuss aspects of the Night Blade in the present day, such as Linne's encounter with Seth as her previous incarnation. Eventually, Linne falls asleep before setting off to Kanzakai the next morning.

The next day, the two walk through the city. Waldstein expresses some irritation at how much they stand out and attract attention, with Linne often having to make up an explanation on Waldstein's gear and large build, going so far as to pretend he is a foreign wrestler known as "Lion Man". When the two settle down at a restaurant, they discuss what they found regarding In-Birth activity in the city. Waldstein mentions he heard about a gathering of In-Births happening that weekend, and Linne brings up that it may be for a powerful organization she heard brought up earlier that day, Amnesia. She had even heard of its leader, Paradox, and the prevalent officers, including the one known as Persistent Survivor and his demise. Linne and Waldstein agree to investigate this gathering when the day comes, and they spend the rest of the week at a nearby inn until the weekend of the gathering.

The day of the gathering, Linne and Waldstein make a plan to sneak into the mansion where the event is being held. Before entering, Linne devises a plan for her to scope out the area to make sure things there will be safe. However, she was distracted by the food served at the event, thus she was caught, held by two guards, and brought to Hilda for questioning. Hilda quickly discerns that she is no ordinary child and an In-Birth. In conversation, when Hilda mentions she will be becoming a Re-Birth, Linne accidentally implies she is the Princess of the Night Blade. Waldstein, who was watching from a distance, immediately intervenes, picking her up and taking her away from the scene.

When brought to safety, Linne expresses guilt at letting her hunger get the better of her and revealing her identity to Paradox. However, Linne is at least glad to have seen her in person, and to know of her plan to become a Re-Birth. Linne and Waldstein have one last conversation of the powerful EXS emanating from Paradox and the likelihood that she may be connected to Kuon.

Scenario: Child of Darkness
A few months after arriving at Kanzakai, Linne finds herself pondering out loud about recent Night activity in an after class meeting, at the school she must attend due to the age of her vessel. Her schoolmate Chiharu overhears her, somewhat confused. Linne attempts to keep the situation under control, as she needs to keep up the front that she is a child of school age. She continues to reflect on the current state of the Night, whispering to herself and trying to hide what she's saying whenever Chiharu overhears her. She often surprises Linne by coming to talk to her while she's lost in thought, but Linne recognizes that she's trying to be friendly. Eventually, Chiharu leaves to go home, and Linne decides to wander off instead of returning home to Waldstein.

Linne takes a stroll through the city, and ends up deciding to enter a toy store out of curiosity. As she was looking through the store, a clerk noticed her talking to herself about how toys were back in her time. She attempts to leave after realizing this, but accidentally runs straight into a boy in a school uniform. He expresses concern for her, helping her up and leading her to the exit. Linne promptly leaves the area as quickly as she can to get away from him. She worried she acted too coldly to him during their brief interaction, and spent time walking around the city more for the rest of the day.

Later in the afternoon, when trying to return home, Linne wanders near a school with students that have the same uniform as the boy she ran into earlier. While there, an angry-looking student bumps into her, knocking her down. The angry student attempts to fight her over this, and Linne considers a way to escape. But before any fight can occur, the boy from earlier came in to intervene. To save Linne from the situation, he told the angry student that he was here to pick up his brother "Yoshio", being Linne. This failed, so he instead picked her up and left the scene.

When brought to safety, Linne is somewhat grateful, but mostly embarrassed and irritated. The boy accidentally finds out Linne is a girl when attempting to put her down, resulting in Linne strangling him to the point of unconsciousness. When he wakes up, Linne thanks him for earlier and tries to go her own way, but the boy insists they walk around Kanzakai together. The two then properly introduce themselves. The boy's name is Hyde Kido.

The two spend the rest of the day walking around the city and eating at a crepe restaurant. When the sun sets, Hyde insists she stay at his place, but Linne declines and the two go their separate ways for the night.

The next day, Linne decides to investigate the school Hyde goes to, and to check on him if she can. She sees Hyde walking home with a female classmate, and immediately notices her refined and efficient way of movement, as if she may have been through some kind of training. It bothers Linne that someone like her would be close to Hyde.

When Linne sees Hyde go off on his own, she notices a frightening disturbance in the EXS surrounding the area, and attempts to run to Hyde to save him from a potential Void attack. She comes in in time and manages to save him from one Void, but is bitten by another. A sword immediately emerges from Hyde as he groans in pain, as Linne realized that he has become an In-Birth. She brings him to safety, ready to teach him about the Hollow Night that he had accidentally stumbled into.

Scenario: A Reluctant Hero
Linne spent a few weeks training Hyde and teaching him how to control the EXS within him. A day before the upcoming Night, she appeared in front of him as he was returning home with groceries he bought. She warns Hyde about the upcoming Night, and that he should not go out if she's not present. Hyde says he'll go anyway if she's in danger, bothering Linne as she doesn't want him risking his life. Just then, Waldstein reveals himself, who was hiding and watching them. Linne forgot to tell Hyde that he was there. He's disappointed by the lack of food Hyde brought back, and Hyde decides to go back and buy more groceries. Before he leaves, Linne tells him to be careful.

Hyde returns after a long time, bringing bad news on why he was late. He had ran into Paradox because a mysterious child told him to go to her location, and accidentally disclosed his identity, putting a target on the back of him and Linne. This greatly disappointed her, but she also immediately recognized this mysterious child as her brother Kuon, based on the description Hyde gave. She told him everything about him, about the Secret Arts and why the two separated. She once again warns Hyde to not get himself into danger under any circumstances, with him responding the same way as he did previously. Irritated, but somewhat understanding, she said she would follow and accept his choice.
