Part I
What Change Will the New Powers Bring to Gensokyo?

I'd like to thank everyone for taking the time out of their busy lives to participate. I wish to collect your valued views and report them for the benefit of all Gensokyo. With that in mind, I'd like to turn it over to our symposium's moderator, human magician and one of leading experts on youkai.

Ah, um, I am the moderator. 'Cause... Uh, I mean, because I believed the symposium to be presented here may be interesting, I have accepted the honor of this role. And, umm...

Just speak as you normally do. Hearing you talk like this is disgusting.

Okay, then. Let's start with the introductions. Take it away.

I manage the shrine on Youkai Mountain. I usually think of nothing but Shinto, but I am interested to hear from those of other religions today.

I am the chief priest of the temple on the outskirts of the village. Although I'm the chief priest, I'm still a novice yet to attain enlightenment, but please consider my views today.

Um, presently, I've renounced my humanity and am a hermit. I only awoke recently, so I'm still half-asleep, but I felt that I might deepen my understanding of Gensokyo by attending today, so I was determined to do so. Speaking of which, the residents of Gensokyo seem to be on good terms, if they can have a symposium like this...

Whoa, this is just the first one. But we're always up fer takin' on new challenges, though.

Is that so...

\[What Change Will the New Powers Bring to Gensokyo?\]

So we got here a Shinto god, a Buddhist priest, and a Taoist hermit. Since we've pretty much gathered up a bunch of business rivals, this oughta be good. A three-way talk between three religious figures. So, what are y'all going to talk about?

Aren't you, our moderator, supposed to decide that?

Oh, yeah. Okay, then, the first theme is "What change will the new powers bring to Gensokyo?" Just throw whatever ya want out there.

As you already are. (laugh)

The "new powers" refers to all of us, right?

Ah, right. Just to clarify a little, y'all three are the newcomers. The hidden theme of the symposium is that ya might be hostile elements here to disrupt our peaceful Gensokyo or somethin'.

And here I thought you were starting to get used to me...

Don't matter how many years go by, newcomers will always be newcomers. From the old timers' perspective, anyway.

Well then, as the real newcomer, I shall start.

Go for it.

My first impression of Gensokyo, besides the fact that there are youkai who cause harm to mankind, is that the minds of humans are capricious and easily swayed. The humans of the village spend their days in mental vagrancy, failing to improve their lot in life, and the youkai are allowed to take advantage of their capriciousness to their heart's content. Frankly, it's a miracle that society hasn't collapsed yet, and I believe the current balance is dangerously unstable.

Uh, I guess...

Why does Gensokyo have no administrator? Society cannot function with all humans possessing the same social standing and rank.

An administrator?

That's right. Humans need leaders to guide them towards a hope-filled future. If no one else is qualified then I would certainly...

I wonder what kind of future lies in store for the humans under the rule of someone who is no longer human.

"Rule" is such an ugly word. It would just be a stopgap measure until someone from among the humans is able to imitate and overturn me.

May I say a word? You say that there is no administrator in Gensokyo, but I don't think that's quite true.

What do ya mean?

Gensokyo's current form cannot be maintained without the youkai's power. Gensokyo was created by youkai to save themselves, after all. The humans in Gensokyo exist for no further purpose than to preserve the youkai. The humans are being ruled by the youkai.

I agree. The youkai keep watch on each other to prevent other youkai from running rampant and ruling over the humans, and to make sure the humans don't awaken to their actual condition and turn down the wrong path. Therefore, the fact that a ruler hasn't emerged from among the humans is in Gensokyo's best interest.

So that's how it is. But if that's the case, then the poor humans here are pitiable creatures...

Think of it this way: are the animals in a zoo unfortunate?

And a zoo is?

An institution where endangered animals are protected and humans can observe them and learn about them. Taking a naturally free bird and locking it up in small cage... when you look at it from that perspective, it seems quite unfortunate. But now, it doesn't have to worry about predators, or running out of food, and there will always be plenty of humans for it to look at, so it will never get bored. If you think of it like that, aren't they fortunate?

So Gensokyo's humans are animals in a zoo? What happened to human dignity?

Dignity, huh? I don't think that's something you receive from others, though... What do you think?

Hmm? Me? What's dignity?

Like pride, or self-respect.

Of course, I'm proud of everything I do, but even if I were forced inta somethin', I'd be perfectly fine with that so long as I were havin' fun.

I see... Then please forget about what I said.

Wait, what were ya talkin' about?

(Laugh)

\[The Reason for Coming to Gensokyo\]

Anyway, I was havin' a hard time followin' that. Honestly, I don't give a flip about the humans of the village. Talk about yerselves. The theme was "what are you bringing to Gensokyo", after all. So first of all, why'd ya move to Gensokyo anyway?

I came to Gensokyo to seek new faith. In the outside world, shrines have become mere tourist traps or called nonsensical things like "power spots", so places for humans to offer their faith to the gods have disappeared. Gods are beings that will cease to exist without humans believing in them.

So ya say, but I don't think ya've gotten much faith in Gensokyo, either.

Just believing that we're real is enough. In the outside world, they've stopped believing that gods even exist. Indeed, everything really changed once we came to Gensokyo. Here, humans believe that gods exist as an everyday fact.

W-well, even if I believed in ya or not, yer right here, ain't ya?

That's not good enough for the outside world. Even if you perform a miracle right before their eyes, they'll convince themselves it's an illusion and absolutely refuse to accept that it actually happened. Humans are easily swayed creatures, so that's the latest fad.

A fad?

Yes, an entirely intentional fad. But, you know, the best part is that even while they don't think that gods or youkai exist, they still believe in aliens.

Oh? Never heard about that.

The moment that humans realized that the vastness of space was beyond their ability to control, they started to convince themselves that there must be aliens somewhere out there, even though nobody's confirmed it yet. Rationalism suddenly turns to mysticism when it goes too far. Funny, isn't it?

I have been curious about this for a while now, but your shrine has multiple divine presences, am I right? Why is that?

Technically, we've got multiple, but never mind that for now. Our shrine's been through quite a bit... Well, just let me say the companion deity is a good partner.

Ooh, I know this one. The companion deity's the one who really rules the shrine, right? And yer just the one runnin' stuff out in front.

Ahem. Although that's not quite how it works, it's not wrong that the shrine belongs to the companion deity. But the companion deity doesn't have much interest in gathering faith, you see. So I have no choice but to gather faith for us by myself. No choice.

Speaking of which, you are from that region of Shinano, are you not?

I'm not, but the others are. I lived there for a long time, too, though.

Actually, I'm also from Shinano. That brings back so many memories.

Oh, really?

Whenever I came there, the lake was always full of such clean water. It was such a beautiful place.

When was this?

I'm not sure. Maybe about a thousand years ago.

Nowadays, it's made a complete about-face and become a rather cold city... Although I'm pretty proud of its excellent factories and the precision machinery they make. There are also some nice hot springs by the train station....

\[The Construction of the Temple\]

Whoa, let's not get caught up in talk of some countryside town no one here knows about. Next up is you. Why'd you come to Gensokyo?

I am just a simple monk in training, but because of a minor disagreement, I was betrayed by humans and sealed away... However, some of my old friends who missed me came to my rescue. And that place just happened to be Gensokyo.

Now, wait. Does that mean you're here by coincidence?

Not coincidence, but rather inevitability. Were they not in Gensokyo, my friends would have been unable to maintain their strength.

You built your temple directly above where I was sleeping. Was that also inevitable?

What might you be talking about?

Oh, yeah. The grave was under the temple, wasn't it?

You built a temple for Buddhism, a religion I used for political measures, on top of it, and I heard it was not just any temple, but a youkai temple full of youkai monks. A temple filled with such detestable, evil power...

How rude. While it may be filled with youkai, those youkai are more sincere than humans. Just as humans can become hermits and celestials, youkai can become gods and Buddhas. My own power is also as vast as it is thanks to youkai.

So you're a monk possessed by evil then. A monk who has fallen unthinkably far... or so I'd like to say, but as someone who used Buddhism for political ends, I suppose I do not have the right to do so.

Well, to be honest, we built the temple there because our treasure-hunting companion reported that "there's something incredible buried down there!" and so we surveyed it. When it turned out to be something that seemed more dangerous than what we were expecting, we thought we should do our best to hide it.

So I was that dangerous-seeming thing, then?

While I don't think my intuition was wrong, I regrettably lacked the power.

Meaning you couldn't keep me sealed, unfortunately for our nameless so-called monk who thought to keep me shut off forever.

\[The Revival of the Saint\]

You can fight later. So, last up is the final story.

I put myself to sleep with a spell. I had planned to wake up as a hermit and enjoy the world as I desired, but I awoke once I was aware that I was no longer in the ordinary world. It was then that I came to learn I was here in Gensokyo. I'm in the process of carefully studying this world, and today will be particularly informative. I still haven't figured out the reason I'm here, though...

The reason you're here is simple. In the same way that youkai or gods like me end up here after their existence is renounced in the outside world, you've also ceased to exist.

I've ceased to exist? But, aren't I here right now...?

Common sense and uncommon sense; in other words, reality and fantasy. The outside world and Gensokyo are separated along that same line. Hence, things that have disappeared, been forgotten, or have had their existence renounced in the outside world can be found in Gensokyo.

So that means I was...

Completely forgotten.

So I've changed from a human to a god-like existence, then?

That's correct. Well, as far as I know you were already regarded as a god in Shinto.

Oh, yes. I forgot to mention this but I don't normally live in Gensokyo.

Huh?

I live in a space I created myself. Living somewhere where nobody can bother them is the essence of what a hermit is.

Now thatcha mention it, another hermit I know also lives in a hard-to-reach place. Howd'ya do somethin' like that anyway?

It's simple, if you study enough of the hermetic arts. Would you like to become my disciple?

Uh, lemme think about it.

You could become immortal.

Ooh.

Oh, proselytizing now, are we? Don't think I'll take that lying down. Switch now and I'll throw in excellent luck on all your fortunes for two months.

Then allow me as well. You are a youkai-like human, after all.

You certainly are popular. (laugh)

A-Anyway, I guess that wraps up the self-introductions. So what I want to ask y'all now is whaddya want to do in Gensokyo from now on?

I think I'd like to live a carefree life without being disturbed.

Izzat so?

Transcending worldly matters, to live a refined life in a world with no worries or anything at all, that's my ideal.

You might have been thinking you've managed to become immortal and ageless by studying hermit techniques, but unfortunately, immortals in Gensokyo have a natural enemy.

You mean shinigami?

Yes, they will periodically come to kill you.

I believe those battles will be a form of entertainment. A nice, leisurely struggle.

Incidentally, I am not interested in immortality. Well, to be honest, I used to be. But after having been touched by my disciples' hearts, now I only train with an altruistic spirit.

And?

I wish to save those youkai who are in the undeserved position at the bottom of Gensokyo's society such as those who do not wish to fight.

And what'll happen after ya save them?

I will lead them to an even higher stage.

Sounds ominous to me. Just imagine a world dominated by youkai bodhisattva and youkai who have attained enlightenment. As for me, I want to create a world where there can be a pillar of support for both humans and youkai. That's what faith is. Faith is necessary to live spiritually rich lives free of worries.

That much is certain.

Our methods are different, but our minds are alike.

So are you holy rollers plannin' on makin' yerselves rich in the process of givin' us spiritually rich lives?

Yes, but what of it? This country is full of misunderstandings about religion, with many people who oppose religion. One of the reasons for that is because religions that misuse faith are spreading also. It's an unfortunate matter. Originally, religion was training with the goal of spiritual growth. Just like sports players use the latest theories to train their bodies to perfection, to become spiritually rich and feel happiness you need to use theories and morals, which is what religions were meant to be. Our duty is to make sure those in Gensokyo become successful yet not spiritually immature like those in the outside world.

I think I get it, but hearin' that from you... Anyway, since ya brought it up, let's change the topic to the outside world.

She says "manage", but she actually is a god residing in the shrine herself.
A temple with more youkai monks than human ones; the sort that could only exist in Gensokyo.
About a few years have passed since coming to Gensokyo.
In truth, everything is fine as long as the Barrier's power remains. This is a sophism often used by youkai.
So that the humans could not be ruled over and used as conveniently.
Counting divine pillars is normally used when counting sacred entities.
A frog-associated divine entity.
A location in the outside world. I heard it has a sea.
A treasure-hunting companion entity.
Positive thinking.
A suspiciously manipulative way of thinking by selling things, hinging on the line "don't you know I'm doing this for you?".