Summer is drawing to a close. Soon, chirping crickets will take over for buzzing cicadas.
Gensokyo's hot nights are cooling down, making it a comfortable time for humans and youkai alike.
Times are peaceful as usual.
From a human perspective, leastwise.


There is an old mansion located at the edge of Gensokyo. Its appearance radiates the feeling of its history and a kind of atmosphere that rejects visitors. Items that look as though they might be from the outer world have somehow found their way into this house. Strange machines, books that make no sense, magazines.
One such object, an iron box that was once a television, now serves the role of spiritual storage.
"Spirits can live well in something that used to display human shapes," she'd say to her shikigami.
This is the home of Yukari Yakumo, the youkai of boundaries.
Ever since becoming aware of a slight abnormality in Gensokyo, she hasn't been able to sleep well, even during the day.
The enemy was yet to be seen, but she was certain that it must have taken someone powerful to pull that off. She doesn't get out often, however, and it will be very bothersome for her to take an action alone.
"Hey, I can rope her in and let her handle this problem."
So she set out for the shrine, another building located at the edge of Gensokyo.
There's a human that she knows there.
It's a carefree person who always happens to be bored,
so she'll gladly undertake the task of resolving whatever trouble there is.


It smells ominous. It is said that the forest eats humans. Humans usually maintain a safe distance from it. Its atmosphere constantly brims with an unearthly evil.
The Forest of Magic, a place where all the evil in Gensokyo naturally gathers.
Within that forest, small human figures are gathered into a small building.
Human figures smaller than humans.
The rainbow-colored puppeteer, Alice Margatroid, is reading books amidst a mountain of dolls.
"How can humans possibly not be aware of this huge disaster?"
"Dunno."
If nothing is done, we won't be able to enjoy that. She isn't the type of person who gets out often, but no one else was interested in the problem, so she set out to investigate for herself.
Or rather, she tried to.
"I don't like this, they're used to this kind of thing, so they should do it."
"Yeah, really."
She knew nothing about the enemy and had no idea how to get started.
In the end, she decided to visit a human who also lived in the forest, to let her take care of the issue.
She brought a few books along......
Grimoires. Books that any human would find extremely rare and difficult to get ahold of.
That person would never be able to refuse such an offer.


"Sakuya, where are you?"
There is a European mansion located next to a lake; a scarlet mansion. A shrill voice was echoing all through its halls, as usual.
Between a lake of glistening white and a forest of verdant green stood a mansion of unyielding scarlet. It should be an awkward sight, but strangely, it's very soothing.
It is said that time stops flowing within this mansion, the Scarlet Devil Mansion. It's not a metaphor.
Remilia Scarlet, a vampire, was looking for her personal maid.
"Have you already done that as I asked?"
"I beg your pardon, my Lady, but I couldn't get what actually you meant to..."
Unfortunately, she was apparently unsuccessful at communicating with the human before her.
"Fine! I'll do it myself, Sakuya, so you do daily stu...
Well, whatever you want."
Obviously, she had not been ordered to stay home. The maid has no choice but to attend her mistress as a protection charm. "You know that you won't be able to do anything after sunrise," she said in her heart.
It's so peaceful and nothing in particular is happening, so she'll just go back home once the mistress gets tired, the maid thought lightly. Of course, that too was left unspoken.


No other place in Gensokyo can match the silence of this place. However, it isn't bleak. It has a peaceful atmosphere like a sleeping soul. There is no sign of any disturbance; nature's bounty and refreshing wind is the sole source of sound.
This is the Netherworld, the land of the dead.
There isn't a living human anywhere to be found. The ghosts there, however, enjoy a lively afterlife.
"So, Lady Yuyuko's not aware of this?"
The most vivid and largest place in this quiet world. The Hakugyokurou.
Youmu Konpaku, a gardener, was pondering whether to tell her mistress about a most recent incident.
At that moment, she found her lady heading toward her. Good timing.
"Ah, Lady Yuyuko..."
"Youmu, are you still ignoring that?"
"Eh? ... What do you mean by 'that'?"
"What, you're not even aware of it?
That's why you're ragged about your dullness."
She doesn't remember being ragged, but it seems that her lady was aware of the trouble as well.
"So you were talking about the Moon? I am certainly aware of that.
You only said that, and so suddenly..."
"It looks like no one's taking action, so why don't you have a go, Youmu?"
"Ehh, why so?"
"Just kidding. You're too unreliable anyway.
That human we saw the other day was better... well, I will do it then."
"No way, please don't be such a meanie... I shall go too."
"I really meant what I said about unreliability, though."
Yuyuko Saigyouji, the ghostly mistress of the Saigyouji family, ragged Youmu.
"Wait, do you have any idea where to go, my Lady?"
"Of course, a lot of them. As we shoot stuff down, we'll eventually find a lead."
"That's where you're wrong, Lady Yuyuko.
You rely too much on raw power and have bad aim, so it takes even longer.
You should concentrate your attack more, look..."
"Your back is so undefended, Youmu."
Yuyuko was really worried about Youmu going out alone, so she decided to take action by herself.
Since the opponent is powerful enough to cause such a disaster, a team of two wouldn't be a bad idea.


It was peaceful.
Or, it looked peaceful.
However, all youkai were upset.
What's really happening is that, without anyone taking notice, suddenly...
The full moon has disappeared from Gensokyo's night.
Even on the night of a supposed full moon, a bit of missing light prevents it from being full. It's no wonder that humans aren't aware of the situation, though; it's only the tiniest bit of difference.
For non-humans, however, a moon that isn't full doesn't function at all.
It's an especially critical problem for those who dislike sunlight.
A human and youkai, a team of two, ventured out into Gensokyo's midnight hours
to retrieve the missing fragment of the moon and restore the full moon.
They will stop the night if need be,
even if it becomes an imperishable night.
—— As summer draws to a close, not much time remains before the harvest moon.
The team of human and youkai stop the night.


A glowing, ancient, virgulate object.
A pile of round objects in the sight.
A small gem. A shining orb. A fragile soul. And the largest sphere.
"How is she doing these days?" she wondered as she stared at these objects.
Time does not flow in this place. History repeats itself.
She, too, was in Gensokyo.